7:00 a.m. nearly 24 hours since I last
ate and just one hormone measurement
left before I can give in to my hunger
well let me take your case and what
we'll do is we'll give a right into the
experiment okay dr. LaRue does the last
blood test and I can finally eat and I
immediately tuck into the sweetest
fattiest food on our table and I'm gonna
have my first bite of food for 24 hours
it was quite possibly the best meal of
my life it's really really good
but what I'm really keen to find out is
how my hormone results compare to those
of an obese person let's take a seat
here the results are in and but the good
news is that you're completely normal
okay what we see that immediately when
you've had your meal your hunger hormone
starts falling and then after a short
period it starts rising and by the
beginning of the next morning it is
incredibly high which is exactly how I
felt I was beside myself by then and how
about the fullness form at looking at
that you should you see the opposite
immediately when you eat the fullness
woman shoots up makes you feel full
allows you to stop eating and then it
starts plummeting and it stays down for
the whole duration so how would that
compare with the profile of someone who
had it was overweight or obese with the
hunger hormone surprisingly obese
patients didn't have as much hunger as
we expected them the hunger hormone
never gets switched on and it stays at
the same level throughout the day and
then starts rising if we actually had to
deprive them of food right so it's a
little bit like a light shining dimly
yeah but where your light shines
brightly gets switched off when they eat
the light stays on so that constant
nagging sensation remains throughout the
day which is really interesting because
not knowing about this hormone what I
expected was that you would tell me that
someone who was overweight had a much
much stronger hunger hormone than I do
but in fact what you're saying is that
that's not the case you're right and we
were surprised until we looked at the
fullness hormones and suddenly it
started making sense because what you
would see in somebody that is overweight
their fullness hormone ne right
a small amount and then comes down again
so they actually never get the feeling
of fullness and you would hear heard
very often speaking to people who are
overweight they'll say I'm not that
hungry but when I start eating I can't
stop I'm pretty shocked to discover that
my assumption of a lifetime which is
that I am the size I am because of my
character is nonsense and it seems from
what you're saying as if I just have a
fortunate hormone set if your hormone
levels were different the battle would
have been much harder
had I been asked to starve a minute
longer I'm not sure I would have managed
my hunger hormone is so powerful that it
actually affected my decision about what
and how much to eat
you